There are basically three kinds of rifles, based on the propulsion technology, and within these three major categories, there are different types of models that match the real military firearms, available in the market. Though these pistols come with certain specifications they can be customized to a great extent according to the shooter’s style and requirements.

Since these rifles are manufactured, following the mechanism of the real ones, the real accessories, meant for the military guns, can be implemented on these. Foregrips, rifle stocks, sights and sling systems, rail systems are some of the accessories that can be attached to these airsoft rifles. If someone is on a tight budget, he can also use the cheap accessories that are available. However, the three major types of rifles are –

spring powered rifles – Even though all the airsoft rifles were spring powered initially, there were variations later. The internal springs that are used in these kinds of pistols drive a plunger and these push the pellets down the barrel. Since these guns have slow rates of fire, the shooter needs to cock the rifle before each shot.
gas powered rifles – Green gas, which is used in these guns, is a form of compressed propane gas, and is kept in a reservoir in the gun. On pulling the trigger, a burst of gas forces the pellet out of the gun. This gas is also used to recharge the gun’s bolt and cock the gun again. This type is mainly popular among the shooters since this offers the most realistic firing experience.
airsoft electric guns – AEGs are considered to be the most powerful in all the types. Though they are spring propelled, they also involve a battery-powered motor which helps to cock the gun, time and again.
Terms you should know:

Blowback – This is a feature in green gas guns that causes the slide on an automatic gun to cycle.

Gearbox – This is the sequence of gears that is connected to the motor of an electric airsoft gun. They consume the rotational energy that is provided by the motor and transfer that energy to the spring mechanism which helps to drive out the pellets. Though there are plastic gearboxes available, the ones made of metal, last for long.